AlternativeAccount13 (1): 
I do not believe in the 1969 American Moon Landing CMV. I really don't see how such a thing could have happened in a time when computers were walls of buttons and lights. The whole idea of it is preposterous. I would like to keep as little people here who are "Patriotic" and view my understanding offensive to America. None of this "Hurr Durr America best country". The way I see it is Russia begins space exploration via Sputnik. America catches on and so do other countries. Then Russia send out a dog into orbit, and countries follow. Then Russia sends man to orbit and other countries follow, except America who sends a company of 3 men to the moon (wtf?). If There have been men there already, why don't they go back? If America is so proud of achieving such an event, why don't they go and colonize it. This happened 40 years ago, why is no one still there? I may be a bit biased, so bare with me.

[deleted] 1 (2): 
> I really don't see how such a thing could have happened in a time when computers were walls of buttons and lights. The whole idea of it is preposterous.
Why is landing on the moon preposterous to you, but space flight in general isn't?
> If There have been men there already, why don't they go back? If America is so proud of achieving such an event, why don't they go and colonize it.
Is this a serious question? Landing on the moon is much different than colonizing it. I hope you can see this basic point. We've been deep underwater, but we haven't colonized that either.... Also, since you seem to think we didn't have the technology to land on the moon back then, don't you think we would go back to the moon now that we do have the technology? Why haven't any countries gone to the moon since the 70s just to prove that they can? We have an international space station and can dock spaceships into it, so we clearly have the technology (unless you don't believe in the space station either...)
Also, you say you're a bit biased, but don't say why. Do you hate the US? Do you simply mistrust all government accounts (9/11, JFK, etc.)? Something else?

[deleted] 2 (3): 
> I really don't see how such a thing could have happened in a time when computers were walls of buttons and lights.
While not as advance as today's computers, there were some that are similar to what we would call a desktop. A quick Google search or the time period's technology would show this.
> The whole idea of it is preposterous. I would like to keep as little people here who are "Patriotic" and view my understanding offensive to America. None of this "Hurr Durr America best country".
Not really related to the argument, but I don't think you'll find a large number of people making this argument here.
In any case, moving on...
> The way I see it is Russia begins space exploration via Sputnik. America catches on and so do other countries. Then Russia send out a dog into orbit, and countries follow. Then Russia sends man to orbit and other countries follow, except America who sends a company of 3 men to the moon (wtf?).
How is that unbelievable? Obviously our technology was starting to advance. The space race helped this a lot.
> If There have been men there already, why don't they go back? If America is so proud of achieving such an event, why don't they go and colonize it.
Shit's expensive.
> This happened 40 years ago, why is no one still there?
We've gone back a couple if times, but it's expensive to send people up there. There's only so many times you can send someone before the cost doesn't justify what is gained.

[deleted] 3 (4): 
Well, for starters Apollo 11 astronauts left behind laser light reflectors which have been continually utilized to measure the distance between the Earth and Moon. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lunar_Laser_Ranging_experiment]

AlternativeAccount13 (5): 
The reason I don't believe this is that using reflecting mirrors and lasers Isn't the only way to determine the distance between the Earth and Moon, so you could plop pictures of some mirror plate and actually find the distance using another source (Paralax or Radar). Then you have a legit sounding story.

mariesoleil  (6): 
So you're claiming that non-American scientists just went along with it?

kairisika  (7): 
Yeah, the Russians who were actively competing with the Americans could tell it was fake but just went "yeah, okay, you win"... 

mariesoleil  (8): 
Makes sense. Just like when you are in a race and notice someone taking a shortcut. You let them win even though you would have won just to be nice. The Soviets were all about being nice to their main competitors. They totally knew when they were beaten. 

kairisika  (9): 
That is exactly the Soviets that I knew. 

NUMBERS2357 (10): 
The point of the mirrors isn't just that they can measure the range (though I believe the mirrors can measure the distance more closely than those other methods, so it's not like those other sources could replace the mirror). The mirror is still up there; anybody could aim a laser at it and get the reflection. The Moon Landing could be disproved by someone pointing a laser and not getting a reflection back.

Leprecon (11): 
Ok, but that doesn't change that those mirrors are there and can be measured using lasers. These aren't ordinary mirrors which can be naturally formed, they are retroreflectors that send the laser beams back the exact direction they came from. What do you think happens when people perform this experiment? Why do they get laser beams bounced back?Perhaps they could measure the distance another way, but they put those mirrors there so everybody could test as well, including the russians.

[deleted] 4 (12): 
Also, moon rocks brought back by Apollo astronauts and the Soviet Luna program are older than any rocks found on Earth. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_rock

AlternativeAccount13 (13): 
You don't need people on the moon to collect rocks, that's what the Luna program did. So yes, I accept that moon rocks are older, but that doesn't prove that man landed on the moon.

rubin0 (14): 
So are you saying that the 1970 Soviet Luna 16 mission to the Moon (a mission in which an unmanned spacecraft landed on the Moon, collected samples, and then flew them back to Earth, guided only by computer) was actually preceded by an American mission to the Moon sometime before the 1969 land date that brought moon rocks to NASA so they would be able to show them off as proof of the landing, all without anyone noticing?

[deleted] 5 (15): 
So you think we landed a rover on the moon, but not people?

combat_muffin (16): 
If you believe the Soviet rover brought back moon rocks, how do you explain NASA getting moon rocks a year before the Soviets?

[deleted] 6 (17): 
I am not trying to be rude here, but you are coming off as a crazy person, why would we be able to land a rover, but not people? You believe people have been in space, but you can't fathom people being in space miles away? Why would non-American scientists also use reflective plaiting put on the moon?

Like, super simple terms here, you say we have has the technology to put a rover on the moon, because you mentioned the Soviet Luna program.

You also believe that people have been in space, as you said in the original post.

IF we have the means to get to the moon and back, and the means to put people in space, the only obstacle would be having enough oxygen, water and food to keep the people alive. So do you believe we can't store oxygen, water and food?

[deleted] 7 (18): 
You do realize that it wasn't just a sudden event, right? There is a reason it is called Apollo 11. There was an Apollo 1-10 before that.

standardleft (19): 
This http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5YjZ6zPs0ac is quite good.

NUMBERS2357  (20): 
> None of this "Hurr Durr America best country".

Just because an event is used by people as an excuse to say "Hurr Durr America best country", doesn't mean it didn't happen. People say this wrt WWII also, is WWII fake?

> Then Russia sends man to orbit and other countries follow, except America who sends a company of 3 men to the moon (wtf?).

Why wouldn't we? We wanted to beat the Russians, we couldn't beat them by being first satellite in space, first person in space, etc. So we beat them to the moon.

> If There have been men there already, why don't they go back?

Because if the whole point was to beat the Russians, once we did that, we had little incentive anymore. Especially since it's inherently risky, and a source of great pride we never lost anyone in flight there or back. Why would we risk it? Little extra national pride in sending repeated missions, but if we lost a crew, then we can't say we had a perfect track record anymore. It's like that Simpsons episode where Bart always beats Homer in video games, then Homer trains and is better than Bart, but the power goes out right before Homer wins. At which point Bart announces his "retirement" in order to stay unbeaten.

Anyways, what do you say about:
* the pictures
* the moon rocks
* the testimony of all the people, as far as I can tell none of whom have ever said it was a hoax
* the video (this guy says it would have been almost impossible to fake the video of the Moon landing given the time's technology)
* the reflector on the Moon the astronauts left, which anyone today could point a laser at and see the reflection.
* the fact that the Soviets would have pointed out it was fake if they had any evidence of this
* all the transmissions to and from the spacecraft which were public, as they'd have to be, since it was all just radio communications. They just get transmitted through space and anyone with a radio can listen in, as is my understanding. It's not like it was encrypted or anything.

[deleted] 8 (21): 
Not to mention that Mythbusters tested many theories of the conspiracy, and they busted all of the theories and came to the conclusion that we, indeed, have went to the moon. 

0ndem (22): 
Much of the advancement in computers has been making them smaller. They had a lot of computing power it just took a lot of space. Also I think much of the mission was planned ahead and was in some aspects aim and shoot.

The main reason to not go back is there just isn't much to gain from going back. Science is more interested in the zero G environment of the ISS than the low G moon.

[0ndem (23): 
Also Penn and Teller did an episode of bullshit on conspiracy theories which included the moonlanding

combat_muffin (24): 
Why didn't the Soviet Union, the group with the most to gain from exposing the moon landing as a hoax, call bullshit? Because they had enough evidence to see it was real.

You believe in Luna 16, so you know the technology exists to get us to the moon, but then you say "I really don't see how such a thing could have happened in a time when computers were walls of buttons and lights. The whole idea of it is preposterous." Contradiction

edit: It also took 8 years to go from a man orbiting the Earth to a man landing on the moon. There were also about 400,000 people working on the moon landing mission in some capacity. You really think all 400,000 people are in on the hoax? Even if not everyone was in on it, that means a lot of people were getting paid to work on something that was fake. Which really seems more likely?

Atheia (25): 
This is a video that I found a couple of months ago. It may not fully convince you that we landed on the moon (although it should), but it should clear up the false conspiracy of it being faked.

But basically, there are several key things to keep in mind.

The Apollo mission was huge. Over 400,000 people worked on this, and in order for the landings to have been faked, 400,000 people had to have kept it secret. While that is possible, it's very unlikely that could've been achieved. The Manhattan Project employed a similar number, yet we know the research was leaked. There is a good chance that the Soviets would've called out the US if they had faked it.

Moon rocks were taken from the moon. Samples were taken by the Apollo missions.

Laser reflectors were placed on the moon. Not only does it provide us a means to measure the distance between us and the moon, it really means that the conspiracy has been smashed.

GeneralError (26): 
> The Manhattan Project employed a similar number

Really? I'll like to see a citation for that Number.

[Atheia (27): 
About 130,000 people at the peak [http://blog.nuclearsecrecy.com/2013/11/01/many-people-worked-manhattan-project/], 600,000 for the entire project. The point is not how close to 400k, the point is that there were hundreds of thousands of people working on a project, and keeping it all secret would be really unlikely. 

GeneralError (28): 
Thank you for the link! This is pretty impressive. I would have though that a much smaller number of people worked on this project. It's an exciting read. 

[HeywoodxFloyd (29): 
If they faked it why haven't they faked more? Why haven't we "gone to mars"? 

[bantership (30): 
First, I want to show you this link [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGXTF6bs1IU#t=15]. It shows why Hollywood did not have the film technology to stage the moon landing, but the U.S. did have the broadcast technology to capture it.

> If America is so proud of achieving such an event, why don't they go and colonize it[?]

Because sending 3 men to the moon cost tens of billions of 1960s dollars, and colonizing it with any sizable population would cost hundreds of trillions of dollars.

How much does taking a vacation cost you compared to building a house and establishing a new life in a foreign country?

[deleted] 9 (31): 
> I really don't see how such a thing could have happened in a time when computers were walls of buttons and lights.

You don't even need computers for this. You can calculate all this stuff with pen and paper and still manage it. (I wouldn't advice it, but it's certainly possible.)

> Then Russia sends man to orbit and other countries follow, except America who sends a company of 3 men to the moon (wtf?).

Can you imagine the political benefit to (Cold War) Russia if they could prove the US never landed on the Moon? It would be massive. But the USSR didn't even raise the suggestion.

> If there have been men there already, why don't they go back?

They have gone back. The last time anyone was on the Moon was in 1972.

> If America is so proud of achieving such an event, why don't they go and colonize it.

Because there's nothing there. It's the Moon. It's mainly rocks and dust. Setting up a permanent settlement there would mean importing everything, from oxygen and water to food and fuel. Do you have any idea how much it costs?

> This happened 40 years ago, why is no one still there?

Because you can't just keep someone on the Moon. There are almost no benefits to it and it would be incredibly expensive.
