Source: Walton (2005) Fundamentals of Critical Argumentation
Title: The Santa Claus Dialogue
Dialogue Transcript:

Alice (1): Well I think that lying is wrong. It’s an ethical rule that lying is always wrong.
Bob (2): Well yes, I agree that lying is wrong as a general rule, but surely it’s not wrong in all cases. Take the rule that everyone has a right to his or her property.
Alice (3): That’s a general rule, so it holds for everyone, just as the rule states.
Bob (4): Well, yes, generally, but there are exceptions. Suppose my neighbor has given me his rifle to lock up securely in our basement, because he has small children. Smith comes to the front door one day, demanding that I return his rifle to him. It happens that I know that Smith is being treated for side effects of a malaria drug that he had to take during military service, and is capable of extreme acts of violence when not on his medication. It looks from his appearance that he may not be on his medication. He asks, “Do you still have my rifle?” How should you answer? In my opinion it would be permissible in a case like this to tell him that you no longer have the rifle. This would be a lie. But in this case the purpose of the lie is to prevent harm, possibly even deaths. Therefore in such a case lying could be justified. I think it follows that lying is not always wrong.
Alice (5): Well yes, you might be right. Lying may not always be absolutely wrong, but as a general principle you can assume that it is wrong unless the circumstances are exceptional. In the case of Santa Claus, I think lying is wrong.
Bob (6): Can you remember back when you were a child and your parents told you about Santa Claus? Didn’t it give you a lot of pleasure to think that Santa Claus had given you these presents at Christmas?
Alice (7): Yes, it did, and I admit that it was a pleasant experience. But I still think that, in general, lying is wrong, because lying is conveying false infor- mation, and this is confusing to children. When children become confused in this way, it is hard for them to distinguish between fantasy and reality. Hence they are in a state where they are confused and out of touch with reality. Being in that state is a bad thing for anyone.
Bob (8): I don’t think it’s such a bad thing. It’s normal for children to have fantasies and to believe stories that aren’t true. In many cases, telling children these stories can have beneficial effects, because it can teach them all kinds of moral lessons even though the story isn’t based on reality. It’s similar to adults reading a fictional story. The fictional story can contain moral lessons or have great benefits in teaching the reader different things, even though the story is not true in reality. It may not be historically accurate or a story about something that really happened.
Alice (9): Kids are disappointed when they find out that Santa Claus does not really exist. The child reasons that if her parents lied about Santa Claus, they are probably lying about other things. Such a child may become skeptical and mistrustful, or even morally confused. She may lose self-esteem, and her grades in school may suffer.
Bob (10): Well, I think children are smarter than that. They know the Santa Claus story is just a “white lie,” a sort of fiction that adults use in order to help make Christmas a more exciting time for children. The deception isn’t permanent, and children realize that it isn’t meant to deceive them about the facts, but merely to entertain them during a time of their life when they need such stories to perk them up.
Alice (11): I can see that the lie about Santa Claus is a relatively harmless one, but I still think that a lie is a lie. It’s the principle of the thing. Once you allow lying of any sort, it could become a habit. It could be easy to start lying about anything, to get what you want. You could become one of these manipulative slippery people who lie their way out of anything. We’ve got enough of these people in high political office already.
Bob (12): Telling kids a story about Santa Claus isn’t really a lie. It’s just a way of stimulating a child’s power of imagination, like telling a bedtime story about fictional events. It doesn’t count as a lie, except maybe as a “white lie” of a kind that is sometimes necessary if we are to be diplomatic and polite. It’s just a kind of harmless fiction.
Alice (13): Bob, a lie is lie. If you tell a child that Santa Claus exists, when in fact Santa Claus doesn’t exist, you are telling the child something false. You know that the statement you made to the child is false, and you did it intentionally. That counts as a lie, because that’s what a lie is. It’s intentionally saying something that you know is false.
Bob (14): Well yes, OK, literally it is a lie. But as I said before not all lies are equally serious. Some lies are not harmful, and are necessary in order to prevent people from suffering the harm that telling them the literal truth might cause.
